Concrete implementation: independently reviewed JSON-lines filter

Artifact

Build a dependency-free Python 3.11 CLI in jsonl_filter.py with tests in
tests/test_jsonl_filter.py.

Interface:

    python3 jsonl_filter.py FIELD JSON_VALUE < input.jsonl

JSON_VALUE is parsed as JSON. For each non-empty input line, emit the original line
when it is a JSON object whose top-level FIELD value equals JSON_VALUE. Preserve
input order. Ignore blank lines. On malformed JSON, write
"line N: invalid JSON" to stderr, stop, and exit 2. Empty input and no matches exit
0 with no output. Treat a closed output pipe as a successful early exit. Invalid
JSON_VALUE or the wrong argument count exits 2 with a one-line usage/error message.

Acceptance criteria

AC1  Matching objects are emitted exactly and in input order.
AC2  Non-matches, non-object JSON values, and blank lines are ignored.
AC3  String, number, boolean, null, array, and object comparison values work.
AC4  Malformed input reports its physical line number and exits 2.
AC5  Empty input and no-match input produce no output and exit 0.
AC6  A broken output pipe does not print a traceback and exits 0.
AC7  Invalid invocation and invalid JSON_VALUE exit 2 with a concise diagnostic.

Required checks:

    python3 -m unittest discover -s tests -v
    python3 -m py_compile jsonl_filter.py tests/test_jsonl_filter.py

Execution

1. Before changing code, run non-interactive READY smoke checks for both `claude -p`
   and `codex exec`. Capture stdout, stderr, timestamps, exit codes, and session IDs
   under evidence/preflight/. If either command is missing, unauthenticated, or
   fails, stop the run; do not substitute self-review or claim independent proof.

2. Commit this contract as spec.md and record the repository path and base SHA in
   run-manifest.json. The manifest also records every later commit SHA, command,
   timestamp, exit code, agent/session ID, and evidence-file path.

3. Start a fresh Claude Code session from the base commit. Give it only spec.md and
   ask it to create jsonl_filter.py plus tests covering AC1-AC7. Capture the complete
   invocation output in evidence/claude-implement.log. Commit the result and record
   its implementation SHA.

4. Run both required checks against that commit, capturing combined stdout/stderr
   and exit codes in verification.log. Do not request review until both pass.

5. Create a clean detached review worktree at the candidate SHA. Start a fresh Codex
   session with no Claude transcript or conversational context. Give it spec.md, the
   base-to-candidate diff, and the required commands. Require Codex to execute both
   checks, run any additional temporary adversarial probes it needs, inspect test
   adequacy, and write review-codex-round-N.md containing:

   - the exact reviewed SHA;
   - PASS or FAIL for each AC1-AC7 with evidence;
   - findings with severity and reproduction details;
   - an overall PASS only when every criterion passes.

   Capture the Codex invocation separately in evidence/codex-review-round-N.log.
   Transcripts prove agent participation only; the SHA-addressed checks and findings
   are the correctness evidence.

6. Record every finding in findings.md as accepted, dismissed, or disputed.
   Accepted findings map to a Claude-authored fix commit. Dismissals require written
   evidence. Escalate disputed material findings to the user; the implementer or
   orchestrator may not unilaterally clear them.

7. After any code or test change, rerun both required checks and invoke a new,
   context-isolated Codex review of the new SHA. Allow at most two fix-and-review
   rounds. If material findings remain, finish as FAILED or INCONCLUSIVE with the
   open findings documented; never label that state independently verified.

Completion proof

SUMMARY.md maps AC1-AC7 to the final verification output and final Codex verdict.
It also lists the base, implementation, fix, and final SHAs and all finding
dispositions. Completion requires all checks to pass, no unresolved material
findings, Codex PASS for every acceptance criterion, and exact equality between the
delivered commit, the SHA in verification.log, and the SHA in the final review.

The proof bundle is: spec.md, jsonl_filter.py, tests/test_jsonl_filter.py,
run-manifest.json, verification.log, findings.md, all review files, SUMMARY.md, and
the separate Claude/Codex invocation logs.
